Thank you.
That helps.
So I'm here to update you on what's
been going on with HTTP live streaming.
I'm Roger Pantoos.
I'm a core media engineer.
I was also responsible
for writing the draft.
So you may have read some of my prose.
What I'm going to do today is I'm going
to talk about three different things.
Some of you may be new to the
idea of HTTP live streaming,
and so I'm going to take a really
short period of time to explain
how that technology works.
Next, I'm going to discuss some of the
new features they were adding
to HTTP live streaming in iOS 5.
And finally, I'm going to spend some time
discussing some techniques that you
can use in your streams and in your
applications in order to perform well.
on our platforms.
So,
HTTP Live Streaming.
Essentially, it's a way that you can use
standard HTTP servers and the
default web infrastructure,
CDNs like Akamai and things like that,
to host live and on-demand audio
and video content to iOS devices
and now to other devices as well.
How does it work?
Well, here's the really short version.
What you do is you take your media
presentation and you divide it
up into these little segments,
maybe 10 seconds each
You make a URL for each of the
segments and you make a playlist file.
And you put the URL to each segment
into the playlist file and then toss
all of that up onto an HTTP server.
For an on-demand content, you're done.
If a client wants to play that,
what he does is he
downloads the playlist file,
and then he downloads and plays
each media URL in sequence.
That's all you need to do
for an on-demand content.
If it's live,
then what's happening is content
is being added to the playlist
file as it's being generated,
and the client will typically reload
the playlist file about every 10
seconds to discover those new segments.
Graphically, it looks like this.
We've got our segment files,
we've got our playlist.
We create URLs for each
of the segment files,
stick them into the playlist.
That's it if it's on-demand.
If it's live,
then periodically we're creating
new segments and adding them to
the end of the playlist file.
What do these playlists files look like?
Well,
we use the M3U playlist file format.
It's an extremely simple format.
It's basically just a text file
with a list of URLs and some
informational tags attached to them.
So in this example here
for an on-demand playlist,
what we have at the top is
some tags which refer to some
general aspects of the playlist,
such as its version and the
target duration of the media.
The main body of the playlist
is this list of URLs that
have tags attached to it.
And in this example,
you can see that the URLs have Xinf tags,
and what these do is they
supply the duration of the
file sequence of the segments.
And so in this case,
file sequence A has a
duration of 9.7 seconds,
file sequence B is 9.2 seconds, etc.
At the end of this playlist file is
an endless tag and that just indicates
that it's an on-demand playlist.
We don't expect any new segments to
unexpectedly appear at the end of it.
So you could keep refreshing it forever
and this would be all you would see.
So this covers the simple case of
presenting content at a single bit rate.
But there are some refinements that make
HTTP streaming work particularly well.
The first is that you can actually encode
your content at multiple bit rates.
So multiple qualities of
different network sizes.
And when you do that,
you put each encoding quality
into its own playlist file.
And when you ask us to
play your presentation,
you present all those
playlist files to us at once.
When you do it that way,
our client will adaptively choose
the best bit rate to match the
connection speed of the network
the user is currently using.
This makes it work well across a
wide range of connected devices with
all kinds of different throughput.
And it's particularly important.
In the mobile space where the available
bandwidth varies tremendously.
So doing it is actually
pretty straightforward.
As I said,
you've got these playlist files,
each at a different bit rate.
You take each playlist file
and you put it into a master
playlist or a variant playlist.
And it's the same playlist format.
It's M3U.
The difference is in this case,
the URLs actually refer to
those individual playlists.
And the tags are stream
info tags that describe the
streams in the playlist files.
So for example,
what we have here is the first URL is
a playlist to the stream that's
encoded at 150 kilobits per second.
The second example is the same content
that's been encoded at a higher
quality of 640 kilobits per second.
So you produce this playlist file.
If you hand it to us to play,
we'll play your content adaptively.
The next variant,
or the next refinement I'd like to
discuss is that your content doesn't
have to be a single uninterrupted movie.
It can be a little bit of this,
and then a little bit of that,
and then back to your movie.
And this is often used
for ad-supported content.
We sometimes also see it
on program boundaries.
So putting discontinuities
into your playlist is simple
in HTTP Live Streaming.
All you need to do is find the first
media segment of the new content
and stick a discontinuity tag on it.
Finally, you can encrypt your content.
And you would do this to
control who has access to it.
To do so,
you encrypt the content first of all,
and then you tag the encrypted media
segments in the playlist with a key tag.
And the key tag contains a URL.
And then you add a key tag
to the URL that allows us,
the player,
to load the key and decrypt the
content if we're authorized.
So multiple encoding
contents or qualities,
discontinuities, encrypted media.
Those are the major features
of HTTP Live Streaming that
make them work really well.
When it comes time to
actually play the streams,
we have a choice of APIs for you.
At the highest level,
you can simply stick the URL to
your master playlist into an
HTML5 video element and let
UI WebView control the rest of the
presentation and control of playback,
whether in Safari or in a UI WebView.
Programmatically,
you can also use the MPMoviePlayer
object from the MediaPlayer framework.
And this is really convenient because
it will handle putting up a UI for you.
It will handle all the user interaction.
It's a really easy way to have your
application play a live stream.
Finally,
you can use the AVPlayerItem object
in the AVFoundation framework.
And you would do this to get
the highest degree of control
possible when playing your stream.
Including if you want
to play a live stream,
you can use the AVPlayerItem object
in the AVFoundation framework.
And you can also use the AVPlayerItem
object in the AVFoundation framework.
What you can do with HTTP streaming,
how it looks on the server,
how you play it on the client,
that's it in a nutshell.
So now, kind of the fun part,
we get to talk about some of the new
features that we've added to HTTP live
streaming since last year's conference.
And the first thing I'd like to
discuss is alternative audio.
So what is that?
Well, it's not uncommon for a video
presentation to have a choice
of different audio that can
be listened to along with it.
Some examples of this are you might
have a movie that has been dubbed
in several different languages,
or you might have the audio
from a director's commentary.
If you're watching a live baseball game,
it's not uncommon for there
to be two audio broadcasts
accompanying the same video,
one that's directed at the
home team audience and one that
is directed at the away team.
So alternative audio is pretty useful.
You can add some compelling
value to your applications.
But for a network playback stack,
there are some challenges
with doing alternative audio.
And it starts with how you approach it.
There are a few different ways.
One approach you can take is
you can simply take all the
different... audio choices,
all the languages, all the different,
you know, variants,
and you can put them into the same
media file and download the media file
and just play what you want out of it.
The problem with doing it this way
is that now you're downloading all
the languages and all the audio
you're never going to listen to,
but you're still paying
for it with your precious,
precious network bandwidth.
And so it's not efficient.
Another approach you can take,
and in fact you can do this in iOS 4,
is you can simply take your presentation.
Let's say it's authored in English.
And you can duplicate the entire thing,
replacing the English audio
with the Spanish audio or the
Italian audio or what have you.
This has its own problem.
It's expensive from a
storage point of view.
And to illustrate that,
I'd like to show you an example.
So what I'm showing you
here is the baseline cost of
storing an HTTP live stream.
When you encode your stream,
we recommend that you start with
an audio-only encoding and that you
additionally have several different VDs.
And you can also use video encodings
at different bit rates so that clients
in different network conditions
can still get a good experience.
When you follow our
recommended encoding levels,
this ends up being about 1.6 gigabytes
of data for every hour of content.
So it's a fair bit.
But now imagine that what you'd
like to do is take this movie,
let's say,
and you'd like to offer it in Spanish and
a few other languages as well.
If you were to simply take the
whole thing and duplicate it,
well, you've just multiplied it by four.
And so now you've got six and
a half gigabytes of storage
for every hour of content.
It's a lot of storage.
And more to the point,
if you happen to be paying a CDN like
Akamai on a per megabyte basis to store
this content on their origin server,
it gets expensive pretty quickly as well.
And it's not like Akamai loves it.
Because remember,
what they've got to do is they've
got to puff all this content
out to their edge servers.
And in this case,
what can happen is that they can
pull... They can pull a bunch of
video content that has English audio
embedded into it out to an edge.
And then the next person it connects
wants to see the Spanish content.
And so now they've got to
eject the English content.
They've got to pull in the
Spanish content even though 90%
of it is actually duplicate video.
So it really doesn't work that well.
And we decided to address it in iOS 5.
How?
What we do is we allow you to specify
that the audio and video be pulled
from separate locations of the system.
So if you're using iOS 5,
you can pull in the Spanish content from
separate locations on your web server.
And we've taught the player
to download both the audio
and video streams in parallel.
What this allows you to do is
offer multiple audio renditions
of your content simultaneously
with a minimal storage overhead.
And as an additional bonus,
this allows us to allow you to
change the audio on the fly.
Thank you.
So what does that do
to our storage picture?
Well, let's go back.
Rather than having this kind
of thing where you've got
six and a half gigabytes,
you're duplicating all your video.
All you need to do is create
an audio-only playlist,
and this is compatible with your
existing audio-only playlists,
for each of the different languages.
These guys are all really small.
And then have them accompany
video-only playlists for all
of your different variants.
What we have here now
is all four languages,
audio-only, plus all six video variants,
and the storage cost is
actually less than it would be
for English-only under iOS 4,
because we're no longer duplicating
the audio in each video segment.
This is a much better approach from
the point of view of storage cost.
So if you'd like to set
up your streams this way,
there's a little bit
more you need to tell us.
You need to tell us
principally where the audio is.
And to do that,
we have defined a new tag in
the master variant playlist.
It's the media tag.
And what the media tag does
is essentially it tells us
that here's a place where we
can find some optional media.
and it allows you to group the media.
And so in this case,
each both of these media
tags has the same group ID.
This indicates that they're
part of the same group.
In this case, it's an audio group.
And the first member of the
group is the English audio.
The second member is the Spanish audio.
Now where you use this is down
below in the stream info tag.
The stream info tag gets a new attribute,
the audio attribute.
It's set to the value of the group.
And what this indicates to us is
although we may be pulling the
video from the main URL down there,
we're going to pull the audio from
one or another member of the group.
Of course, your video may still be
encoded at multiple qualities.
And if it is,
you simply have more stream info
tags and you use the same audio
attribute to indicate that they're
all pulling audio from the same group.
So, the next step is actually choosing
which audio you'd like to listen to.
And to do that, we have a new API in iOS
called the Media Selection API.
What this API allows you to do
is to look at an AV asset and
discover that you actually have
optional media attributes in it.
And to select the one you'd
like to use for playback.
And the way it works is you start by
getting a reference to your AV asset,
and then you load the available
media characteristics with
media selection options.
Or the AMCWMSO, as we like to call it.
It's a long name because it
has a bunch of stuff in it.
It doesn't just have
all the optional audio,
but it can have optional video or a
bunch of other different things as well.
The next step is to call one of
the selection APIs that says,
out of the universe of
media options you've got,
filter out what's audible.
Filter out my audio options.
That produces a selection group.
And then the next stage is to
walk through the entries in
the selection group and choose
which one you'd like to use.
And you can do this by
inspecting each one,
looking at its language tag or its name,
throwing up a UI, different things.
Or you can just be lazy like me and
you can just pick the first one,
object or at index zero.
So you get a media option,
you get one of the
optional audio selections.
And then you take your asset and you
create an AV player item with it.
And then you tell the player item
to select the media option you've
chosen in the media selection group.
And as I described earlier,
you can either do this once prior to
starting playback of the player item,
or you can do it at
runtime while it's playing,
and that will cause us
to switch the audio.
And I'd like to show you that now.
And so to do that,
I'd like to bring up my
colleague and co-authors back,
Bill May.
Thank you.
Okay, so what Bill's gonna do is
we have a little demo app we
wrote called Foreign Cinema,
and so Bill's gonna
launch that application.
and the first thing he's
going to do is load a movie.
So let's choose the Phil and John show.
I love that one.
So here's our buddy, Johnny Ive.
And what we're going to do next
is we're going to tap the language
button to discover what kind
of audio we have in this movie.
And what we've done here is we've gotten
a list of media selection options,
and we've iterated through them,
and we've thrown up a UI with the name
that's embedded in each media tag.
And so to start with,
Bill's going to pick English.
And now we're going to play that.
And now we have Johnny speaking English.
He probably does a better job than I do.
So let's handicap him.
Let's push him over to French.
In fact, let's listen to the
director's commentary.
What the heck?
Avoid getting moisture into openings.
Don't use window cleaners,
household cleaners, aerosol sprays,
solvents.
All right.
That's riveting, Bill.
Thanks very much.
So that was alternative audio.
The next feature I'd like to discuss
is byte range support for segments.
Now traditionally, HTTP live streaming,
you have your playlist file
and you have a bunch of
URLs indicating media segments.
And traditionally,
each media segment has been
the entire content of a URL.
And what this means is that if you
have 700 media segments in your movie,
you actually have 700 little
files up on your web server.
In iOS 5, we're adding the ability to
specify a media segment as
a sub-range of a larger URL.
And what this allows you to do is to
consolidate your media segments into
larger files or a single large file.
The primary benefit of this is that
when a client is playing your media,
rather than sort of downloading
a segment from over here,
then downloading the second file,
then downloading this one,
it's actually walking through
a larger file in sequence.
And this allows servers like proxy
caching to be able to do that.
So,
if you're using a lot of other servers,
like proxy caching servers,
such as Akamai,
to get a much better idea of what
it needs to prefetch in order
to ensure that the next segment
you're going to want is in the
cache at the time that you want it.
As a kind of a side bonus,
it also means that you end up
with far fewer files to manage.
If you have many video
variants and a long movie,
you could have thousands of individual
segment files using byte range support,
you only get a few.
Graphically, it looks like this, old way.
You have individual segment files.
Each one has a URL.
It's in a playlist.
Using byte range support,
we can consolidate all the
segments into a single file.
I'm calling it media.ts.
And you still have playlist entries,
but now the playlist entries,
in addition to the URL,
have the byte range specifier that say
it's actually this sub-range of the
Now, there is one caveat I'd like
to mention with byte ranges and
it has to do with live content.
And it's this.
When your application is
watching a live stream,
it's making media file requests
over the big wide internet.
And it may be making them through
a number of different servers.
Caching servers like Akamai,
corporate proxy servers, what have you.
And all of these servers do a great job
at caching entire resource requests.
And some of them do a pretty
good job at caching byte ranges.
And some of them kind of have
a sense of how to handle files
that grow dynamically over time.
But when you put all this stuff together,
you're kind of asking for trouble.
It becomes somewhat unreliable to make
these requests over the internet because
even if your web server can handle it,
your intermediary
caching servers may not.
And for that reason,
we recommend that you do a great
job at caching byte ranges.
And of course, there's always static
for on-demand content.
We recommend that they be
static for live as well.
So it doesn't matter if they're
really small or really large,
just as long as you don't append
to them after you start playing.
So that being said,
here's how you specify
byte range media segments.
We have a new tag.
We called it byte range.
And it specifies the length of the range.
It may also specify the offset.
And it may also specify the offset.
Unless the byte range adds up,
it's not going to be a good idea.
It actually follows immediately
from the previous byte range,
in which case the offset
can be optimized away.
Here's an example of a playlist file.
On the left, we have the old way where
we've got three segments.
Each one is its own URL.
It's a relative URL in this case.
On the right, we have the new way.
We still have three segments,
but now they're ranges into a single URL,
media.ts, and we have the range tag that
specifies the byte ranges that
they're actually occupying.
So it's a pretty easy syntax,
and we actually found it to
be quite handy for the next
feature I'd like to talk about,
and that is Fast Forward Rewind.
What we wanted to do with
Fast Forward Rewind is enable the
use case where a user is looking
for a scene in your presentation,
your movie, your TV show, what have you.
They know it's in there somewhere.
They don't quite remember
where in the movie it is,
and so they'd like to scan
rapidly backward and forward
through the movie looking for
the scene they'd like to play.
play.
We wanted to support the
most popular scanning speeds,
so 16 times, 32 times, 64 times,
the reverse equivalence of those.
And of course, being HTTP live streaming,
we wanted to work with
live content as well.
But again,
being as we're a network player,
there are some challenges with this,
and the foremost challenge being,
let's say I want to play your
content at 32 times real time.
There's no way that I can download
all of your content 32 times faster
than I'd like to play it normally.
You might, with a fast network,
get four or five times.
There's no way you're going to get 32.
Fortunately, it isn't actually necessary
to download all the content.
For instance, if you're watching all
the content at 32 times,
that's over 1,000 frames a second.
And believe me, it's just a blur.
It's not useful.
What you really want to do is you
want to display a carefully sort of
a well-chosen selection of frames
at about 5 to 10 frames a second.
And perceptually,
this allows users to orient
where they are in the stream
and to stop when they want to.
So the solution we have for
Fast Forward Rewind does exactly that.
It's called iframe-only playback.
Now, I'd like to spend a little bit of
time describing iframe-only playback,
and to do that,
I have to make a brief detour into
the mysteries of video encoding.
So I hope you'll bear
with me for a moment.
When video is encoded,
what you're doing is you're taking
individual frames and you're
turning them into compressed frames.
And every compressed
frame gets a frame type,
their IP or B.
Now, the only thing you really need to
take away from this is P and B frames,
although they comprise most
of the frames in the movie,
are a pain in the butt to deal with.
And the reason for this is
that to decode a P or B frame,
you also have to have a bunch of earlier
frames from previously in the movie.
iFrames, on the other hand,
don't have this problem.
They are independent.
They stand alone.
So in order to turn an
iFrame into a picture,
all you have to do is load the part
of the file that contains the iFrame,
its byte range,
and then run that through the
decoder and you get a picture.
One of the advantages of this approach
is that your content already has iframes.
And so you don't need to produce
special purpose content for
supporting fast forward and rewind.
All you need to do is tell
us where your iframes are.
And so to do that,
we have a new kind of playlist,
and it's an iframe only playlist.
Now -- Mom, is that you?
So an iframe-only playlist is actually
almost identical to a regular playlist.
Its job is to tell us
where the iframes are.
And so what we have here is an example
where we have a couple of iframes in
segment1.ts and a few more in segment2.
And so we have our familiar
pattern here where we have a
URL that has a bunch of tags on it.
In the case of this one,
the tags are simply saying
that I've got an iframe in
segment1.ts at this byte range.
The only difference between
iframe-only playlists and regular
playlists is that iframes do
not have an intrinsic duration.
They're just sort of an instant in time.
And so in an iframe-only playlist,
the ex-inf duration actually refers to
what we call the span of the iframe.
Or in other words,
the length of time between that
current iframe and the next iframe
appearing in the playlist file.
And so what this is saying here is
that segment one has two iframes.
The first is at the beginning.
The next is 4.12 seconds later.
The third, which is in segment one,
is in 3.56 seconds and
so on and so forth.
So when you do this and when you
tell us where your iframes are in the
content and you ask us to play a 32X,
what we're going to do is we're going
to go through the iframe playlist.
We're going to pull out all the iframes.
We're going to play
them as fast as we can.
How fast is that?
Well, it depends.
If it's relatively low bitrate content,
if it's 200, 300 kilobits and you've
got an Ethernet connection,
you've got Wi-Fi,
we're going to download them really fast.
If you're over 3G and
these are HDI frames,
it's going to take a little longer.
What do we do about that, Dr.
Science?
I'm glad you asked.
Just as HTTP Live Streaming can
play your content at 1x adaptively,
we can do the same thing
with iframe-only playback.
You can supply us with
multiple iframe playlists,
one for each of the video variants
that you're offering to us.
And that way, when we play it,
we have the flexibility to choose the
bitrate of the iframes that we wish
to download so that we can create a
good match between the frame rate we'd
like to achieve and the quality of
the iframes that we'd like to display.
And so, it's pretty easy to set up.
Once you've got it set up this way,
then that's pretty much all you need on
server side to do fast forward rewind.
On the client side, it's even easier.
All you need to do to do fast
forward rewind on a client
is set the right property.
There's a slight caveat
for HTTP live streaming,
which is this.
Because we don't always
have iframe playlists,
because they're sort of an
optional feature of the stream,
a given stream may not be capable
of doing fast forward rewind
if there's no iframe playlists.
And so we recommend that unless you
know you're playing your own streams
and you know it has iframe playlists,
that you check the value of the can
play fast forward and can play fast
reverse properties of the player item
before you attempt to set the rate.
In fact, it's probably a good
idea to do it anyway.
Roger Pantoz: And so once you do that,
you'll get fast, high-quality,
fast forward reverse.
And I'd actually like to demo that,
if that's okay.
And so let's bring Bill back up.
We're going to switch back to the iPad
and run our Foreign Cinema app again,
bring it back up.
Now we're going to
choose a different movie.
Let's choose Vacation Video.
And so let's start playing it.
And so we've got some
folks in the field here.
Now, I know that there's a
scene later on this movie,
which is a footy game
that I'd like to watch.
And so let's go to fast forward.
So we're going to start at eight times.
It's a little bit further.
Let's go to 64 times.
And so now we're playing 64 times.
And let's see.
Okay, now we're in Amsterdam.
And okay, pause that there.
Yeah, okay, that's what I want.
I think we went a little too far.
Let's go backward a little bit.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah, now let's play that.
We're still working on the transition
a little bit as to where we
transition from the operating button.
So what we've just done is we started
at the beginning of the presentation,
we scanned forward rapidly
to find the part we want,
we've zeroed in on it and we
started playing to--we started
to see what we wanted to see.
So, thanks Bill.
Great.
So, thank you.
Thank
So next I'd like to talk about
a couple of features we actually
slipped into earlier iOS releases
but perhaps didn't do as great
a job of telling you all about.
The first is closed captions.
As most of you know,
closed captions is a way to embed
accessibility text into a video signal.
And the format for the closed
captions has been defined by a
well-known standard called CEA 608.
And the good folks at ATSC have further
specified how to embed 608 closed
captions into an NMPG-2 transport stream.
And so in iOS 4.2 and onward,
if your streams,
if your transport streams
contain 608 captions in the video
and the user has selected it,
usually via the preference,
then we will display those closed
captions while the video is playing.
So that's pretty cool.
Next I'd like to talk about
playback statistics at runtime.
We delivered this in 4.2 and
what we did was we gave you a way
to kind of peek into the player
while something was playing to
get a sense of what was going on.
We adopted the Apache model,
which is to say that we
give you two different logs.
One's an access log,
which generally tells you
what's going on normally.
And there's also an error log that
tells you about sort of exceptional
conditions that have occurred.
So in the access log, for instance,
we currently record a log entry every
time we switch to a different variant,
a different bit rate.
And amongst the things we record are
when the variant started to play,
how much time we downloaded,
how much time was actually watched,
the URL we pulled it from,
the server IP address,
because sometimes you need to
debug a bad caching server,
the number of times it changed,
and a bunch of kind of
performance-related information about
the stream and how it was playing.
Another thing that we
have is a playback GUID,
which is essentially a string,
a pretty long string,
that is unique to every single playback.
And the interesting thing about
the GUID is it's actually supplied
as part of the HTTP GET request.
It's one of the headers.
And so if you can combine statistics
that you've recorded on your
app at runtime with server logs,
you can actually get a really
good idea of what happened
to that particular playback.
Getting the logs is really easy.
You can get them from either an AVPlayer
item or an MPMoviePlayer controller.
It's essentially the same API.
You just ask for the access
log or the error log.
And both logs are basically
an array of log entries.
And so you can step through that array.
You can examine each
individual log entry,
see what stuff it's got in it.
And we also provide a convenience API,
which is that extended log data guy.
And what he does is he takes the entire
log and he formats it into a file format
that makes it really convenient to post
to sort of an external logging server.
The file format we've chosen
for our statistics is the
W3C extended log file format.
This is a long name for a
very simple file format.
Again, it's just a text file with a bunch
of header fields at the beginning
and then every log entry is a line
of text in tab-delimited format.
This is the access log.
The error logs are pretty similar.
We found just internally that looking
at these logs when we're bringing up a
stream can give us a tremendous amount
of information about what's going on.
Even after you've deployed your stream,
if you can collect this kind
of information from your users,
it can give you a really good
insight as to whether you've made
a good choice when you've selected
your different encoding bit rates.
You can kind of find out how many
of your users are hanging out on
the high bit rate streams or not.
You can find out how many of
your users are hanging out
on the low bit rate streams,
versus the low bit rate streams, etc.
Maybe you need to add a few
more in there at some point.
So, statistics are really useful.
I'd recommend that you
kind of get to know them.
And that is it for features this year.
So, we've got a couple little ones.
What I'd like to do now is spend some
time talking about best practices.
And these are essentially areas where
when we've worked with you folks,
we've seen you run into
some issues and problems.
Maybe you need to make
slightly different choices.
And so let's talk about that.
The first thing I'd like to
talk about is the tricky,
tricky area of delivering
encrypted content.
So you encrypt your content in
order to control access to it.
And that starts with encrypting each
of the media segments in AES-128.
And once you've done that,
we recommend that you distribute the
media itself over plain vanilla HTTP.
It's fast, it's cheap,
it's just as safe as anything else,
so long as you control
access to the keys.
And that is really the
thing you wanna focus on,
is protecting the access to the keys.
So recall that the keys themselves
are specified as URLs in the key tag.
And so when the player needs
a key in order to encrypt the
media file they'd like to play,
it's going to try to load
the contents of that URL.
There are a few different approaches to
this that can help keep the key secure.
And I'm gonna talk
about a couple of them.
The first and perhaps the most
obvious is that you can deliver the
keys over the network using HTTPS.
And HTTPS is a good start because
it means that no one sort of in the
middle can snoop your packets and
discover the content of the keys.
It's not enough, however.
Because you also have to protect
against someone using someone else
using our APIs to get your keys,
someone who's gonna make requests,
who's gonna have our player
make requests on their behalf.
So it's also necessary
that prior to playback,
that you authenticate yourself
with your HTTPS server.
So there are a couple of approaches here.
One is that prior to playback,
you can connect to your HTTPS server
yourself in your application,
and you can perform whatever
authentication you feel is kind
of interesting or necessary to
get your server to trust the fact
that it's you on the other end.
Once it's done that,
your server can issue a cookie
that will expire soon after
that session is complete,
and a cookie that is unique per session.
What the server can then do is trust
that anyone in possession of that session
cookie is authorized to have the key.
Now, when the cookie is sent back,
our web subsystem will cache
that cookie so that when the
player has to go ask me for keys,
the cookie request will appear to the
HTTPS server and it should hand it over.
We actually, when we see a playlist,
we sort of aggressively try to
download all the keys we can find
in it in a short period of time.
And so you can actually have your
session cookie expire relatively
rapidly and things will still work.
A similar approach you can take is that
you can use the realms feature of HTTP.
And this is, what this is, is realms,
if you try to download a resource from
an HTTP server in a particular location,
then it's going to challenge you.
It's going to ask you for some
credentials in order to prove
that you are who you are.
And to get this to work, of course,
the trick is that you have to get
the credentials to our player.
So there's a simple way to do that.
And that is, again, prior playback,
use NSURL connection to try to download
something out of the realm yourself.
And that will cause kind of a
challenge response action to
occur with your NSURL delegate.
And so once the authentication
happens successfully,
again, our web subsystem will cache the
credential so that our player can reuse
it when we need to obtain the keys.
So that's a pretty safe
way to deliver keys.
It does require a certain amount of
server infrastructure to be built.
And so if that's intimidating or if
you already have a very similar but not
quite the same server infrastructure,
there's another approach.
And that is that your application
can actually provide the keys to
us directly when we need them.
And there may be a bit of, you know,
and the way you do this is
using application-defined URLs.
And there may be a bit of a,
sort of amongst some people,
it's kind of a Scooby-Doo moment,
application-defined URLs,
what's up with that?
So let me talk about that for a moment.
The way application-defined URLs work is,
first of all,
you decide that in your world,
URLs should be, for instance,
ABCD colon blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah.
Fantastic.
Well done.
But where they really get
interesting is where you actually
let the system in on this.
And the way you do that is by
subclassing the NSURL protocol
class and by registering your
subclass with the system.
What you're doing when you do
this is essentially you're telling
the system that you're signing up
to handle loading all ABCD colon
slash slash URLs that come its way.
So once you do that,
the next step is to describe your keys
in the HTTP Live Streaming playlist
file as ABCD colon slash slash URLs.
And so now when the player
needs to load the keys,
it's going to call back into
your application and say,
I need ABCD colon slash slash
key number one or whatever.
However you define whatever.
And at that point,
your application can either hand over
the key data directly or if it wishes,
it can make up an actual HTTP URL on
the spot and hand that to us
and we will redirect the request
and go fetch it off the web.
So since we're talking about keys,
it's important to note that
when you implement and register
an NSURL protocol subclass,
it is private to your application.
Your competitor application
cannot simply load an ABCD URL and
get your keys and get access.
It's your content.
And so this means that NSURL protocol
is a really secure and efficient way to
deliver the keys to us when we need them.
Now you may wonder, "Hmm,
this sounds pretty cool.
Is there anything else I can use
these application URLs for?" Well,
you can actually.
You can use them for playlist files,
and I'm going to get to that in a second.
One thing you can't do, however,
is you can't use them for media files.
We do require that the player load
the media files themselves directly,
and the reason for this is that
this is the information we use to
understand the quality of the network,
and it allows us to make the
right decisions in terms of
which bitrate we'd like to play.
And so media files must
always be HTTP or HTTPS URLs.
The keys and playlists on the other hand
are really short and so it's fine to
use application defined URLs for those.
And in fact if you do or if you use the
HTTPS methods that I described earlier,
there's a nice bonus waiting for
you in iOS 5 and that is AirPlay.
When we rolled out AirPlay,
we didn't have any support
for encrypted video streams.
In iOS 5, we do.
And this is an example
of one of those things,
one of those new features in OS that
should just work if you followed our
recommended practices for doing stuff.
Now, the flip side of this is that when
you build your application for iOS 5,
it actually gets opted
into AirPlay by default.
And so if you wish,
the flip side of this is it'll
just work if your application
is followed the best practices.
And this is good news for most people,
I would say.
For some people,
it's actually not so great news
because for reasons normally
contractual or what have you,
you don't want your content
playing on some big TV somewhere.
And so if you're in that boat,
then there is an entire section of
the AirPlay overview document waiting
for you that discusses how to opt out.
And I believe that's
up on our website now.
It's called AirPlay Overview.
So download it and check it out.
The next thing I'd like to talk
about is ad-supported playback
and specifically what works well,
what doesn't work so well.
There's a technique that we've seen some
folks try to use called chaining players.
And this is kind of a clever technique
where when you want to display sort of
an ad at the beginning of your content
or maybe an ad in the middle somewhere,
you actually create two players.
And one player is
responsible for playing,
let's say, your television show,
and one player is responsible
for playing the ads.
And what you try to do is
juggle these two things.
And so you're playing your TV show along,
and then you say it
comes time to run an ad.
And so you kind of hide
the TV show player,
and you show the ad player,
and you play your ad.
The problem with this technique is that
there are several different reasons why
it's poorly suited to network players.
One of them is that network
playback essentially has a buffering
stage where prior to playback,
we've got to download stuff as
fast as we can from the network.
So we have a buffer that allows
us to play through uninterrupted.
When you have independent players,
they're actually competing for bandwidth.
And due to the way TCP works,
how the competition is going to turn
out is actually pretty unpredictable.
And so, for instance,
you might have a case where your
user is watching just the last little
bit of a TV show prior to an ad,
and you decide you want
to queue up the ad.
It's possible that pre-buffering that
ad will actually starve the player,
and you could actually stop
playback before you got to the ad.
You might decide alternately that, okay,
I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to just wait
until the TV show stops,
and then I'll queue up the ad.
Well, the experience then is
I'm watching my TV show,
and suddenly it cuts
to a commercial break,
and I'm sitting there watching
a little spinning thing.
And there's nothing as a user
I like better than watching a
little spinning thing so that
I can watch an advertisement.
It's fantastic.
And another problem that is
specific to adaptive streaming
is when a player is active,
it's constantly monitoring the network
and selecting the best bit rate.
For the current connection speed.
When a player is inactive, it's not.
And that means when you stop playing one
player and you start playing another,
the new player is not going to
have a good sense of what the
correct bit rate is going to be.
So an example of how this can
manifest is you might start playing
your TV show with a commercial.
And so it starts with the ad,
and in a few seconds it switches up,
and suddenly you've got fantastic
quality in your Colgate commercial.
It's like, ding!
Kind of thing.
And so then the commercial ends.
And the show, which is what the user
actually wants to see,
starts.
And suddenly we're back to Captain Blocky
because we're starting at a low bit rate.
And finally,
when you're trying to separate your ad
playback from your main content playback,
you end up with all these
different little islands
of sort of program content,
ad content, program ad content, etc.
And what that does is it makes it very
difficult to implement seeking because
now you're seeking across all these
different little islands of content.
And it's very difficult to implement
something like fast forward rewind.
So chaining players is not going
to work well for ad playback.
So what do you do instead?
Well, we actually have a technique
that works really well.
And that is to use a single playlist
and put all your program and all
your ads in that single playlist.
And if you've used some of the
popular TV applications on the iPad,
you've actually seen this
technique in practice.
The way it works is you
have a single playlist.
You put all your ad content in.
You put all your program content in.
You separate the ad content from your
program content with discontinuity
tags in between the different ads.
You use floating point X-inf durations.
And this is very important because it
allows us to be accurate when the user
seeks to somewhere else in the stream.
And a lot of people use the
position in the stream to know
when they're playing ad content.
And so because they want to
control the transport bar,
they want to disable seeking or
something while an ad is playing.
And so it's very important that the
playback time report is accurate.
Once you've got your floating
point exit durations,
the next thing you can do is use the
boundary time observer of AVPlayer.
And what this will do is call it
back into your application when we
cross a particular boundary time,
i.e.
when you've crossed from the main program
content into an ad content or vice versa.
And so this allows you to
control your transport bar.
Now, it's actually a fairly common
request that ads not be kind
of burned in for all time,
but that they be rotated based
on time of day or other factors.
And so even though you may go
back and watch the same episode,
you may get different ads.
And fortunately,
the M3 playlist file is so simple
that it's really easy to take
multiple fragments of playlist files
and kind of stitch them together and
get a single usable playlist file.
So all you really need to
do is break up your program,
your television show, for instance,
into the little islands
that are between the ads,
and then dynamically
choose the ads you want,
pull in those media segments,
and stitch them together.
There are a couple of different
places you can do this.
One place, obviously,
is you can do it on-demand on the server.
When a client says, hey, I'd like to play
House MD episode 128 or whatever,
it can say, well, okay,
it's about 9 p.m., so I think
I'll put in a Budweiser ad or
however they decide these things.
And that works pretty well.
It does require a certain amount
of state to be kept on the server.
But for one reason or another,
it's also fairly popular to
want to be able to choose the
ads that are played back in the
application itself at playback time.
Fortunately,
you do have a way to do that,
and that's using
application-defined URLs.
I discussed them earlier.
The way it works is when you
ask us to play back a URL,
you give us back an ABCD or
what have you URL instead.
And so when we need to load the
playlist file or the master variant or
the individual variant playlist file,
we'll go and we'll ask
your application instead.
And at that point,
your application can go off
and look at things like,
well,
has the user seen this particular ad?
Or maybe they've told me where your
location is and I wanna put up a
locale-specific ad or market-specific
ad or something like that.
But using application-defined URLs gives
you an opportunity to do this.
And if you set everything up this way,
then you'll get a single buffering stage.
You will rapidly hit the
optimal playback bit rate.
Fast forward rewind will work great.
Seeking will work great.
It's a much better experience.
So if you're trying to do ad-based
playback or anything like it,
this is really the
technique we recommend.
Next, I'd like to talk about a
quick performance note.
Pretty much all modern web servers
have the ability on a per-mime
type basis to compress a resource
that's being asked for with gzip.
And so if someone asks for a
particular file and they ask for it
and they say it's okay to gzip it,
the server will do this on-demand.
If you haven't got your web
server set up to do this,
we really recommend you do.
Because, again, the playlist,
it's just a text file.
It's really simple.
It compresses fantastically.
10x compression is actually typical.
It's simple to do.
I've got the
Apache configuration right here.
You can just slam this into
your httpd.conf file or whatever
they call it these days.
And that will tell it any time you hand
out an M3U8 file with this mime type,
if the client asks for it, and we will,
then simply compress it on the fly.
Now, it's not required.
It's optional.
But if you're playing content over
3G or you're playing live event.
Content where you're continuously
reloading these large playlist files,
then downloading playlist file
10 times faster can actually make
a perceptible difference in the
responsiveness of the user experience.
And so it's easy to do.
It's cheap.
Most of the major CDNs support it.
And so ask them for it.
Speaking of optional things
that can make a difference,
there are a number of things you
can do with your playlist file that
give us additional information about
what's going on in your content.
And one of these is the codex
attribute of the stream info tag.
What the codex attribute does is
it provides a complete list of
all the codex that are necessary
to decode a particular stream.
So in this case,
AVC is H.264 MP4A.40.blah, blah, blah,
is AAC.
And so looking at that, we know that, oh,
I need an H.264 codec and AAC.
Great.
What it also allows us to do, however,
is it allows us to distinguish
between the variants you have
that are audio only and those
that have audio and video in them.
And there are certain times
when we can make use of this
information and provide a better
user experience when we're switching.
A similar attribute is
the resolution attribute.
The resolution attribute is
another stream info attribute.
And what it does is it provides
the approximate horizontal vertical
dimensions of the video in a stream.
Again, it's optional,
but if you do provide it,
then it can prevent us from
making some boneheaded mistakes,
like deciding that we're gonna
start downloading your 1080p video
stream and playing it into a little
web window that looks like this,
just because we happen to
have the network for it.
So you guys pay for the bandwidth and
the user gets no additional benefit
because we're downscaling it to 320,
240 anyway.
We can do that,
but we can only do that if you tell
us what the resolution is in advance.
I've already mentioned
floating point durations.
It's really important to use floating
point durations so that we know
where we are on an accurate basis
when you seek around in the stream.
And finally, we ship a tool called the
MediaStream Validator.
And this is a tool you
point at your stream,
it'll download the stream,
it'll check it for
syntactical correctness,
it'll check for some best practice stuff,
some self-consistency things.
It produces a lot of output,
and some of it's a little hard to read.
It produces some warnings,
it produces some errors.
I encourage you to become familiar with
the output of MediaStream Validator,
even the warnings, because they often can
point out subtle errors.
In your streams,
errors that may not appear
to you automatically,
when you're doing your testing,
but may show up for some
percentage of your users,
or they may cause your streams
to stop playing when we do a
subsequent update and we tweak
how the player works a little bit.
So get to know the
MediaStream Validator output,
pay attention to it.
You don't necessarily
have to react to it,
but you should understand what
it's saying and you should say,
yeah, okay, I know about that,
that's okay.
Next, I'd like to talk about TLS.
What's TLS?
TLS is basically SSL, secure SOC Slayer,
after the IETF got through with it.
It's the official IETF version of SSL.
The news in iOS 5 is that we
have upgraded from TLS 1.0,
which was used in previous releases,
to TLS 1.2.
And along with this upgrade,
a number of new cipher suites
are presented when we issue
the SSL client hello message.
So, TLS 1.2 is a good thing.
It fixes a couple of pretty significant
security holes that are present in 1.0.
It's generally more stable.
However, in doing testing,
we have discovered a
number of 30-party apps,
not a lot, but a good few,
that are incompatible
with TLS 1.2 on iOS 5.
Now, we've looked into this,
and sometimes we'll find that it's
actually a bug in our TLS implementation.
We can fix that.
But, most of the time,
it appears to be sometimes
a bug in the application.
More often,
it's a bug in the HTTPS server
that the application is talking to.
So, if your application uses HTTPS,
if it uses SSL,
I highly encourage you to install the
iOS 5 seed you received this week.
Try out your application.
If your application has
problems connecting,
check your servers,
make sure they're TLS 1.2 compatible.
[Transcript missing]
So those are kind of the trade-offs
you need to consider when you're
selecting your target duration.
10 seconds is a pretty good default.
It works well for a
lot of different cases.
Another point I'd like to make, however,
is that if your stream is
not starting up quickly,
it's not because you've picked a
target duration that's too large.
If your stream's not starting up quickly,
it's because the bitrate of the
stream combined with the speed of the
network requires us to spend longer
buffering before we can start up.
Working around target duration is not
going to help you start up faster.
If you're having startup problems,
then the recommendation is to add or
to have a lower bitrate stream and
use that as the initial variant in the
playlist file so that on a slow network,
we can start quickly
at the lower quality,
and on a fast network,
we'll start very quickly at the
low quality and then quickly switch
up to the appropriate quality.
Finally,
I'd like to spend a little bit of time
addressing the folks who are actually
writing their own transport streams.
Not everyone does this, but when you do,
it's really important to get it right.
So a couple of points.
When we create these media segment files,
they're really designed
to be continuations of the
previous media segment file.
You should be able to catenate all the
media segment files together and play
the stream in an uninterrupted way.
When we load the first bytes
of the second segment file,
we expect to carry on right
where we left off with the last
bytes of the first segment file,
from the point of view of parsing,
from the point of view of encoding.
This means the format has to be the same.
The track count can't change.
The transport stream continuity
counter has to continue uninterrupted.
We have to be where we
were in GOP structure,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Everything must be continuous.
The only exception to this
is if the media segment
follows a discontinuity tag,
and if it does,
we'll throw everything away,
and we'll start from scratch,
and we'll start displaying at the next
IDR frame we find in the segment file.
So segment files,
even though they're independent files,
need to be continuous encodings.
Second,
MPEG-2 transport streams
have these structures called
the Program Access Table and
the Program Map Table.
We don't impose a buffering model on you,
but we do require that you have
at least one of these at the
beginning of every segment.
And third,
there are some formats out there that
have very coarse sample time scales.
This means that when they put
the media into the format,
they lost a lot of accuracy by rounding
everything to one millisecond timestamps.
If you have to transcode,
if you have the unlucky job of
transcoding back into MPEG-2 time scales,
you can't just multiply
the timestamps by 90,000.
You're just propagating
the accuracy loss.
You need to look at, like,
the audio samples and
look at the sample rate,
count up all the audio samples,
and reinstate that accuracy.
I'm sorry, it's a pain,
but if you don't do it, your streams,
the samples won't add up,
they won't play right.
So, have we dived in deep enough?
I think so.
Let's pull out.
The thing you need to take away
is that we continue to add new
features to HTTP live streaming
and to support new use cases.
There are a bunch more related sessions
this week for folks doing media.
A couple of them already happened.
Check out the video replays.
There are a couple more tomorrow,
mainly involving editing and
capture in both Lion and iOS.
Check those out.
And so that's it for this week.
Thank you for coming today.